For my final project, I have created a platform game with the Quintus game engine. The level was built with a software called Tiled, which allows you to facilitate the level design using sprite tiles. All graphics are from the Open Game Art (opengameart.org). Although my coding skills are limited, I tried implementing some stuff that a typical platformer game would have, such as enemies, coins, ladders, blocks and doors. 
The purpose of the project is more of a research and to understand the function of a platformer. The game is also to explore the idea of bad level design and abusive game levels where you cannot win or lose. As I was working on the project, I tweaked the game engine so that I have full control of the environment. I overpowered my character so that it can run faster and jump higher. This makes an easy level into a difficult one since you have a hard time controlling your character’s gravity. The enemies were also tweaked by adding more speed to their movement. The player has unlimited lives, so you can die as many times as you want without a game over screen.
By tweaking the mechanism, it helped me understand why games have a certain rules and goals. For example, if your character is overpowered, there is no point of having enemies. If there are no obstacles, there is no point of moving your character anywhere. A game wouldn't be as fun if there are no challenges or an end point to the next stage level.
The first stage is simple. Like any platformer game, all you have to do is reach to the yellow box to advance to the second stage. If you are brave enough, there are a couple of doors that you can explore.
The second stage is frustrating. The goal is to jump on the platforms without falling down and reach to the other side. If you fall, you’ll have to go all the way to the beginning, climb the ladder and start all over again. If you want the second route, there is a hidden door in the middle of the stage that leads straight to the finish line, but it’s impossible to reach it. The only way to get to the secret door is to perfectly land in one of the middle platform (see link at the bottom).
The Quintus game engine hasn’t been updated in a while, so there weren’t many things that I could add to make it more challenging. If I want to improve this game, I would make a bunch of moving platforms and objects that could hurt the player to emphasize the abusive game level. I would also add different types of enemies that could shoot projectiles so that they’re not just moving left and right. Adding power-ups and more collectables could also be something that needs to be implemented in the future.
To play the game, use the arrow keys to move and the up button to jump.
